The original dataset *UCI HAR Dataset* includes 10297 observations of
561 variables, the variables come from an experiments that have been
carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48
years. Each person performed six activities (`WALKING`,
`WALKING_UPSTAIRS`, `WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS`, `SITTING` , `STANDING` ,
`LAYING`) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using
its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear
acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz.
The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The
obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70%
of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30%
the test data.

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by
applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows
of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor
acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components,
was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration
and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low
frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency
was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by
calculating variables from the time and frequency domain. See
‘features\_info.txt’ for more details.

For each record it is provided multiple variables, however only a subset
of those variable has been exctracted, the meaused variables of this
dataset are as follows:

    tBodyAccMeanX
    tBodyAccMeanY
    tBodyAccMeanZ
    tBodyAccStdX
    tBodyAccStdY
    tBodyAccStdZ
    tGravityAccMeanX
    tGravityAccMeanY
    tGravityAccMeanZ
    tGravityAccStdX
    tGravityAccStdY
    tGravityAccStdZ
    tBodyAccJerkMeanX
    tBodyAccJerkMeanY
    tBodyAccJerkMeanZ
    tBodyAccJerkStdX
    tBodyAccJerkStdY
    tBodyAccJerkStdZ
    tBodyGyroMeanX
    tBodyGyroMeanY
    tBodyGyroMeanZ
    tBodyGyroStdX
    tBodyGyroStdY
    tBodyGyroStdZ
    tBodyGyroJerkMeanX
    tBodyGyroJerkMeanY
    tBodyGyroJerkMeanZ
    tBodyGyroJerkStdX
    tBodyGyroJerkStdY
    tBodyGyroJerkStdZ
    tBodyAccMagMean
    tBodyAccMagStd
    tGravityAccMagMean
    tGravityAccMagStd
    tBodyAccJerkMagMean
    tBodyAccJerkMagStd
    tBodyGyroMagMean
    tBodyGyroMagStd
    tBodyGyroJerkMagMean
    tBodyGyroJerkMagStd
    fBodyAccMeanX
    fBodyAccMeanY
    fBodyAccMeanZ
    fBodyAccStdX
    fBodyAccStdY
    fBodyAccStdZ
    fBodyAccMeanFreqX
    fBodyAccMeanFreqY
    fBodyAccMeanFreqZ
    fBodyAccJerkMeanX
    fBodyAccJerkMeanY
    fBodyAccJerkMeanZ
    fBodyAccJerkStdX
    fBodyAccJerkStdY
    fBodyAccJerkStdZ
    fBodyAccJerkMeanFreqX
    fBodyAccJerkMeanFreqY
    fBodyAccJerkMeanFreqZ
    fBodyGyroMeanX
    fBodyGyroMeanY
    fBodyGyroMeanZ
    fBodyGyroStdX
    fBodyGyroStdY
    fBodyGyroStdZ
    fBodyGyroMeanFreqX
    fBodyGyroMeanFreqY
    fBodyGyroMeanFreqZ
    fBodyAccMagMean
    fBodyAccMagStd
    fBodyAccMagMeanFreq
    fBodyBodyAccJerkMagMean
    fBodyBodyAccJerkMagStd
    fBodyBodyAccJerkMagMeanFreq
    fBodyBodyGyroMagMean
    fBodyBodyGyroMagStd
    fBodyBodyGyroMagMeanFreq
    fBodyBodyGyroJerkMagMean
    fBodyBodyGyroJerkMagStd
    fBodyBodyGyroJerkMagMeanFreq

So as we can see, we only perserved the variable which measure either
the `mean` or the `standard deviatoon` of each measurement for each
identifier, there are 2 identifiers, `activity` and `subject`

The method followed for performing the analysis can be seen at the
`README.md` file included in the repo.
